# Information
## Background

This repository shows RapidMiner Process files created as a coursework. <br/> Task was to come up with a creative Use Case with at least two different datasets and to perform Clustering and Classification activities in RapidMiner. <br/> In order to get to know the algorithms different parameters had to be used.

## Use Case

A famouse Use Case is clustering of Basketball Players based on a set of performance variables. In relation to our research we decided on a Use Case in which the Management of a Professional Counter-Strike Team is looking for a strategy to evaluate potential youngsters.

At the begining we searched for interesting patters by clustering algorithms to get classification labels. In case of none applicable clusters, three Labels for "interesting player" are generated by ourself.

## Data Sources

Artem (2020): CS:GO match history. Online available at: https://www.kaggle.com/artem1337/csgo-matches (last access on 13th March 2022)

<br />

Mateus Dauernheimer Machado (2020): CS:GO Professional Matches. Online available at: https://www.kaggle.com/mateusdmachado/csgo-professional-matches(last access on 13th March 2022)

<br />

# Rapid Miner

## Clustering

Following cluster algorithms where used with different hyperparameters to get to know algorithms and behaviour.

* K Means (Manhattan and Euclidean Distance)
* X Means (Manhattan and Euclidean Distance)
* K-Medoids (Manhattan and Euclidean Distance)
* DBSCAN (Manhattan and Euclidean Distance)

## Classification

Following algorithms where used with labels from Clustering as well as manually generated labels.

* K-NN (Manhattan and Euclidean Distance)
* Naive Bayes
* Decision Trees
* Random Forest
* Gradient Boosting Trees
* Vote
* Neural Networks
* Support Vector Machine

# Conclusion

## Result

Clustering usually led to two clusters of players. Thus we generated three labels by our own. For Classification - clustered as well as own labels - the precision score was chosen as performance measure. This is because we want to assure that players labeled as "high potential" actually are "high potential". Precision usually was above 90 %, except for Neural Networks (70%).

## Important Note

It is to mention that the most challenging and underestimated aspect in the Use Case was that performance measures of Counter-Strike Players are not compareable to those of Basketball Players.

In Basketball the defence performance can be measered by Blocks or Steals and the attack in Field Goals and Assists. In Counter-Strike the same measures (e.g. Kills and Deaths) are used for defensive and aggressiv gameplay. Thus there are no variables to distinguish between positions. However for the coursework it supported our learning in Clustering and Classification Algorithms.